# This is all subject to frequent changes
MicroLisp is a lightweight lisp interpreter loosely based on the syntax and semantics of the Scheme programming language.

This is an honors project for my Java programming class at CCD.

This interpreter currently supports A full numeric tower(fixed and unlimited precision Integers, Rationals, Reals, Complex and Quaternions, recursively i.e quaternions with arbitrary precision rational coefficients), string literals, lists, vectors, tuples, first class functions  w/ tail optimized recursion and lexical scoping.

The syntax and semantics almost entirely follow from Scheme. Some differences include: 
- "Purely" functional. There is no mutation(like `set!` at the language level. IO is impure, but has functional semantics.
- `car` and `cdr` are replaced with `head` and `tail` 
- `(define (fnName arg1 arg2 ...) functionBody)` is instead <br/> `(define fnName (lambda (arg1 arg2 ...) functionBody))`
-   All special forms `lambda, cond, let, lets` bodies are a single expression instead of allowing multiple expressions. i.e `(lambda (x) (print x) (+ x 1))` does not `print x` and then `return x +1`. It just ignores the second expression. Use `(do expr1 expr2 ... exprn)` to sequentially evaluate expressions, which will discard all their values except for the final expression. To keep and then use sequential values, chain functions or use `lets`
- Full Scheme style `quote`,`quasi-quote`,`unquote`,`unquote-splicing`

You need JDK v21+ to build this project 

To build, clone the repository  
`git clone https://github.com/unreasonablyeffective42/microlisp` 
and from the directory ./MicroLisp, enter(if on linux): `./BUILD` (or just `BUILD` if on windows).
It will compile, build the resources, and create a shim script for command line execution as well as update your environment variables.
Then you can run from a new terminal with `microlisp -ip` Optionally you can pass it a file to load as well `microlisp -flags file.mu`

To build it yourself, navigate to the MicroLisp directory then `javac -d ./out ./src/*.java` To run just `java -cp ./out/ MicroLisp` + flags + optional files to be loaded.

After building try:
- `microlisp ./examples/primetest.mu`  
- `microlisp ./examples/gol.mu`
- `microlisp -i ./examples/examples.mu` 
    - \>\>\>(fibs 1000)
    - \>\>\>(factorial 10000)
- There is a fractal generator in `mandelbrot.mu`, constants are declared in the top `defines`, you can choose a resolution, zoom level, aspect ratio, and a few color pallets I have made, you can also make your own with `lerp` and the coordinate transformers `xr` `yr`
- And I am currently working on a physics simulator in physics.mu

I have built in libraries currently for lists HOF and string processing ,do `(import lists)`, or `(import strings)`
I have also implemented basic file IO, as well as a simple pixel graphics library capable of rendering 24-32 Bit color in a window or saving to PNG.

The flags to pass are: 
- i: interactive mode(repl). (best for multi-line copy/paste inputs)
- p: context aware repl(will indent next lines appropriately during multiline input, does not work with copy/paste multiline inputs).
- l: debug level low, displays the AST generated by the parser for the inputted expression.
- h: debug level high, displays low level debug info, and the raw token stream from the lexer.
